#summary how to get the latest releases.

= Maven Support =

If you are maintaining your dependencies through Maven Repositories,
this page tells you what repositories to point to.  Please let us know
if you have any questions or feedback!

== Releases Repository ==

All of our releases will be deployed to the Maven Central Repository, starting with the 2.0.1 release.  So all you have to do is add the appropriate dependency to your pom:

{{{
    <dependency>
      <groupId>com.google.code.facebookapi</groupId>
      <artifactId>facebook-java-api</artifactId>
      <version>2.0.2</version>
    </dependency>
}}}

== Snapshots Repository ==

A Snapshot is what Maven calls a development build.  For example, trunk is at version "2.0.3-SNAPSHOT".  And we can do builds and changes against that snapshot version number as often as required.  Once we make an official release, "2.0.3", then trunk would become "2.0.4-SNAPSHOT".  This states that a Snapshot release is a development release, and can change from under you.  An actual release is final and can never change after it's been released, so the "2.0.3" jar file will never change, and if we have to make a small fix or something we might release "2.0.3.1" or tell everyone to avoid "2.0.3" and use the next available release.

The Maven Central Repository will not hold Snapshot releases, so we
have to maintain our own repository for this purpose.

Add this repository to your project's pom:

{{{
    <repository>
      <id>mrepo-happyfern-snapshot</id>
      <url>http://mrepo.happyfern.com/maven2-snapshot/</url>
      <snapshots>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
      </snapshots>
    </repository>
}}}

Then you have access to this dependency:

{{{
    <dependency>
      <groupId>com.google.code.facebookapi</groupId>
      <artifactId>facebook-java-api</artifactId>
      <version>2.0.3-SNAPSHOT</version>
    </dependency>
}}}